There are 6 types of pieces on each of the two sides in chess.
8 Pawns
2 Rooks
2 Knights
2 Bishops
1 Queen
1 King

The object is to take out the opponent's King.
The it is known that a king cannot escape, a "checkmate" occurs.
The board is 8x8
There is a specific starting position.
White always goes first.

The sides take turns.

When a piece captures another piece, the captured piece is removed from the game board and placed on the side of
the capturing piece.

Pawn:
- If clear, can move but not capture one space straight forward.
- If there is a target, a pawn can capture diagonally forward.
- Each pawn's first move can go two spaces forward instead of one optionally.
- If a pawn reaches the furthest row of the board, it is turned into a Queen, Rook, Bishop, or Knight 
	(pawn's side player's choice, and Queen is the most powerful)
- En Passant: This special pawn capture allows a pawn to move diagonally forward 
	(in the diagonally forward direction of the captured pawn) only under these conditions:
	> the capturing pawn must be on its fifth rank
	> the captured pawn must be adjacent to the captured pawn (to the right or left)
	> En Passant can only happen on the move immediately after the captured pawn makes the double-step move

Rook:
- Can move through any number of open spaces vertically or horizontally
- Can capture any opposing piece blocking its range upon landing
- Can also be used in the King's "castle" move

Knight:
- Can move and capture moving one space in one direction and then two spaces in a perpindicular direction.
	This move is only blocked by obstacles on the landing square and
	can capture any opposing piece on the landing square.

Bishop:
- Can move through any number of open spaces diagonally.
- Can capture any opposing piece blocking its range upon landing

Queen:
- The most powerful piece: the Queen has the abilities of the rook(except castling) and the bishop.
	> The Queen can move any number of open spaces vertically or horizontally.
	> The Queen can move any number of open spaces diagonally.
	> The Queen can capture any opposing piece blocking its range upon landing.

King:
- The critical piece: once the King is defeated the game is over ( a "Checkmate" occurs )
- If the King is in the capturing range of an enemy piece it is in "check"
- Can move one space horizontally, vertically, or diagonally if the landing space is clear of friendly pieces
and is not in capturing range of an opposing piece
- Can capture opposing pieces upon landing
- Castle: This move involves either of the two rooks.  Two pieces move through each other in one move:
	> The King moves two spaces in the horizontal direction of the chosen rook
	> The chosen rook moves one space past the landing space of the King
	Castleing can only occur if:
	> Niether the king nor the chosen rook has ever moved in the game
	> There are no pieces between the King and the chosen Rook
	> The King is not in "check"
	> The King does not pass through a square that is in the capturing range of an enemy piece
	> The King doen not end up in "check"
	To clarify:
	> The chosen rook may be in capturing range
	> The rook may move through a square in capturing range
	> The king may have been in check earlier in the game
